Now that you've seen the custom dockerfiles that are going to
drive the services that we're going to get up and running in
our development environment,
let's jump into the docker‑compose.yml file and see how it's used
and the different services that we have in it,
and some other features, and see how we can create that.
So earlier we looked at the custom dockerfiles,
and we saw that we had our mongo, nginx,
node, and redis.
Let's jump on down to the docker‑compose.yml file.
Now to start things off, you'll notice that I have the standard version up top,
and then I have my services.
So from a high level, I have my nginx, a node1,
2, and 3, we have mongo, and we have redis for our caching,
and so that's the same infrastructure that we talked about
a little bit earlier in this module.
Now let's walk through each of these real quick and just take a look
at what's going on with our individual services.
So first up is nginx, you can see, and it has a container_name,
so there's a property that you can put in your YAML files called container_name.
We've already seen the build context up to this point in the modules,
and we're setting the build context as this folder here,
the root of this folder, which is CODEWITHDANDOCKERSERVICES.
And then you'll notice that I'm pointing the dockerfile location to
that .docker folder that we looked at earlier,
and of course the actual dockerfile.
Now, if you recall, in the config for nginx I configured node1,
2, and 3, and that way,
when a request comes in it can kind of load balance and does a
round‑robin by default, and it'll call node1,
and the next request goes to node2, and so on,
and so forth.
So what I have here, if we go back to the docker‑compose,
is those actual node1, node2, node3.
So this is going to link up to these services here,
and this is kind of like an alias,
and then it points down to the node1 definition down here in 2 and 3.
So those are actually really important in this case because of
the nginx acting as a type of load balance,
or reverse proxy actually, and it does that type of thing.
And I'm also exposing the ports that I want nginx to support.
Now, in this environment for development,
I'm probably just going to hit port 80,
but I showed earlier that in the dockerfile for nginx,
I actually do load up some self‑signed certificates,
so it would be possible with some more configuration code to
get SSL going if we wanted on port 443.
Now, the next thing I do is I load an environment variable.
Now, this environment variable, it's just one, you'll see,
but it's in a file, this .env.
So let me show you what this file looks like.
It's very, very basic, but really, really useful.
So you'll see this app.development.env.
And all I'm doing is adding this NODE_ENV and setting it to development.
Now, normally, that's used just with Node.js,
but I may actually want to use that particular environment
variable throughout multiple containers.
Now in this case I'm not really using it, per se, but it would be available.
So what'll happen is when we build and then run this,
it's actually going to load that environment variable and make it available in
the container so that we can work with that if we'd like.
Now you might wonder what this is.
Well,
I'll show a little more of this as we get into the next section
and actually run the docker‑compose commands,
but I have a little kind of README up here of what to do to get this running.
So the first kind of step after you do some other changes for
connection strings is I have to export app environment,
and I set it to the environment I want to run.
Now, right now I only support development.
You'll see I don't have an app.staging, app.production,
mongo.staging, mongo.production, just development.
But as I'm getting ready to migrate this to other environments,
I can certainly add those files.
And I just made kind of my own way of doing it,
a little environment variable that's local to the particular file here,
and it will be read dynamically.
So we'll run this in the console,
and then when we do the docker‑compose build and the docker‑compose up,
then it will automatically make this available.
So this would load app.development.env, assuming I set it to development,
and I'll show you this as we move into the next
section with the command line stuff.
Alright,
and then the final thing is I have a custom bridge
network called codewithdan‑network, and that's,
again,
going to allow all these containers to communicate in
the same network on that Linux host.
Now, for the node it's very similar.
I have a container_name, I have a build location for the dockerfile,
expose the ports, but here's where I actually set the volume.
Now this assumes we're in development mode, because you'll
see that I'm pointing to the local folder,
which would be everything you see here.
And then on the actual container,
though, this is where we do that kind of aliasing,
and the volume actually is going to point to my code here.
So once these containers are up and running,
we can make our code changes. And then I showed earlier how I have,
it's called pm2 monitoring, and that pm2 will kind of watch for changes,
and if anything changes then it'll reset the server.js,
and that way I can just leave my containers up and running and
they'll reset each other, or themselves,
I should say.
I set the working directory, and then I also load an environment file.
Now, this is used because this is Node, and again,
the environment file is specific to Node.
And so Node and Express, specifically Express is being used
as the web kind of component of this, it knows how to read
that environment variable, and it can actually tweak some settings there.
Now you can have multiple environment variables.
This is something that if I wanted I could have Env1 or Env2=foo, or whatever,
and just keep going, name‑value pairs.
And so this makes it really,
really easy if you have a bunch of environment variables,
well, I could put these right in the yml file here.
It's a lot easier just to put them in an environment
file and then have them loaded up, and then,
as mentioned, if I do this export APP_ENV=development,
then what'll happen when I use this with docker‑compose
is this would be app.development.env.
Now, obviously, if I change this to production,
then it would be app.production.env,
and that would help you kind of dynamically load the
different environment variables.
So this is the same for all the node containers,
and again, I put three of them,
mainly because you might want to simulate your production
environment while you're in your dev environment,
and so this is just kind of allowing you to do that.
Now, if you only wanted one, you could certainly delete, you know, two of these.
Now, the mongo is actually pretty simple.
We have, again, the container_name and the build.
Here's the ports, external, internal.
And then I have environment variables, and these are really important,
because the mongo one, this is going to be available to the container,
and then the shell scripts that I showed a little bit earlier,
they're going to read from these environment variables,
apply them to Mongo, so you'll see that I have my kind of root admin account,
and then my webrole here represents what Node would use to
actually call in the mongo in that network.
And so what'll happen is the shell script would read these as they're
passed into the container once it gets up and running.
And then once it's done applying those to mongo,
it would just erase those out of memory, because obviously,
once mongo is up and running and we've configured it,
we don't really need those or probably don't even want
those hanging around in the environment.
So that's one way you could do it, there's certainly
other ways that you could configure this,
but this makes it easy for a development environment.
Alright,
and moving on down, there's the environment variables being loaded.
Then the last one is redis, very similar procedure.
We have our dockerfile.
This is the redis port that's kind of the standard port.
We load that environment variable.
This one just loads the node, which isn't used here,
but I could have environment variables that are maybe specific to Redis
potentially. And, again, we put it in the network.
And so there you have it, that would be the entire file we need.
And what I love about this is right now we have six services in
here, nginx, three nodes, redis, and mongo, but if I wanted to add a
seventh or an eighth or a ninth service, then I could certainly do
that just by updating this file.
And then you've seen how easy it is to bring services up and take
them back down, and that's what we're actually going to talk about in
the next final part of this module here.
So that's an example of the custom YAML file that could be used
to get our development environment up and running. And this is
something we could just check into source control, every team
member could pull it down,
and then we would be able to do our builds and start running our containers, and that's what we'll take a look at next.